README for Guidestar-Attendance

Guidestar-Attendance is a business application under contract by a child care industry consultant. Guidestar-Attendance is a child attendance tracking solution. There are 125,000 child care facilities in the US, most of which are relatively small day care centers, too small to afford the day care software applications currently on the market. Guidestar-Attendance is targeting the smaller child care facilities with an inexpensive, easy to use interface. The demand for attendance tracking is driven by the need for day care centers to know precisely when a child is on premises in the event a child is injured and legal issues arise. 

The application provides each client (child care facility) the ability to record each drop-off and pick-up event thereby tracking the time span each child was on premises. There are 7 object models and 2 join tables in the db:  centers, children, groups (classes), handoffs (child pickup/dropoff events), locations, parents, teachers, families (child/parent join table),   group_teachers (group/teacher join table).  A center (child care facility) admin cannot see the data from other centers.  A center can create/update/delete its own objects only.  Only the super administrator (the consultant) can create/update/delete centers (the consultant's clients).  The super administrator also has all CRUD powers of a center administrator.

Coding Progress:  All super administrator and center administrator CRUD functions have been coded.  Teachers and Administrators have password reset functionality.  Adding and deleting join table rows for assigning/removing teachers to/from classes and adding/removing parents to/from child accounts are coded.  Before_action code prevents unauthorized users from accessing client data.  

Coding under development:  Programming handoffs, child pick-up and drop-off events and reports will complete the application.  When a parent or other child escort arrives at the day care center, they will first log into Guidestar-Attendance. A list of the children assigned to the escort will be displayed. The escort will record either a child drop-off or pick-up event and will select the children being escorted. The parent logs off, automatically redirecting the app to parent log in for the next parent.

Demo Instructions: Go to https://attend-by-guidestar.herokuapp.com to demo the application using the following credentials: 

super administrator login
username: "fpurposes" | password: "hire_him"

parent, teacher and administrator logins
username: "dsmart" | password: "12345678"

A super administrator is an instance object of the center model with "true" in the admin field.  Each center has only one login therefore acts as its own admin.  A parent cannot login until a teacher or center administrator logs in first.  This prevents parents from logging in remotely and entering fraudulent attendance information.

The teacher's only function is to login passing control to the parent log in page.  If a teacher is not available, the center administrator can log in and pass control to the parent log in.  The administrator log in gives the administrator access to all parent, teacher and class CRUD functions and reports.  

Additional Requirements:

- Attendance Report:  will display all dropoff (arrive) and pickup (depart) events for each child.

Import/Export

- Allows center administrator the ability to import a spreadsheet of object data to populate the db upon initial install.
- Allows center administrator the ability to export data from the db into a spreadsheet for use in other applications. 

Other

- Audit trail: log all actions with timestamp
- Report printing

Ruby version 2.3.0 | Rails 4.2.6

System dependencies: PostgreSQl configured for development and production.

License:  the password reset code and several coding best practices were originally published in a Michael Hartl tutorial, covered by the following open source license.

The MIT License

Copyright (c) 2016 Michael Hartl

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN
THE SOFTWARE. 
